# Book rental APIs Assingment

Make a DB with two collections - Users and Books.

Books should have the following fields

• book name

• category

• rent per day


Users - You decide

Create a collection of atleast 5 users (Users) and a sample dataset of at least
20 books (Books) & make APIs to get the following queries.

INPUT - book name or a term in the name of the book

OUTPUT - list of all the books with that name or term in the book name

INPUT - rent price range

OUTPUT - list of books with rent in that range

INPUT - category + name/term + rent per day(range)

OUTPUT - list of books with matching values as in input

Make another DB to keep track of every transaction of each book named TRANSACTIONS:

1. When it is issued
   
2. When it is returned


Decide the fields of this DB based on the below given queries.

Make APIs toupdate the transaction DB for a new transaction

INPUT - book name + person name/userId + issue date (BOOK IS ISSUED)

OUTPUT - update the Transaction DB with these values

INPUT - book name + person name/userId + return date (BOOK IS RETURNED)

OUTPUT - calculate rent based on issue date and return date and update the transaction DB with these values.

Do validate against existing users.


Make APIs to get the following queries from the TRANSACTIONS DB

INPUT - Book name

OUTPUT - List of people who have issued that book in the past ( total
count), the person who currently has that book issued ( currently issued
only) or status of not issued at the moment.

INPUT - Book name

OUTPUT - Total rent generated by that book.

INPUT - Person’s name/userId

OUTPUT - List of books issued to that person

INPUT - Date range

OUTPUT - list of books issued in that date range and the person they are issued to


Helper APIs:

To get the list of all the users.

To get the list of all the books.
